- could spread through gas pipes
- spread through the new enemy that spits at you
- being around a monster that can spread it
- Gene+ ingredients that can make a disease stronger or weaker or add symptoms or remove them

- radiation that can mutate genes or spread them? use radiation warning from when you pull out the apparatus
- Goggles that highlight infected objects
- Disinfected gloves
- Gas mask
- Ship upgrade that when run gasses the inside of the ship after closing the door, give a 10 second countdown first with alarms
- Scanner similar to the zap gun that detects diseases
- OPDeck can detect diseases
- Chemsprayer that disinfects players
- Hand washing station
- Shower has chance of curing disease
- walk in unit for ship that cures all infection in a player
- way to make vaccines against any symptom, so if a disease has that symptom, itll be taken off

Symptoms
Green Needle - You are never targeted by lightning strikes
IBS - You explode on death
MAD - You kill the nearest living thing on death
arachnophobe - spiders instakill you
crazy - everyone is wearing mimic masks
Fresh Scent - If someone else triggers Circuit Bees to attack, they pathfind to you instead.
Narcissism - Everyone else is invisible to you. 
Egg on Face - If a Giant Sapsucker sees you, whether or not you have an egg, it will hunt you down and won't let up.
Water on the Knee - Every ingame hour, you'll slow down as if you were walking through water for a few seconds.
Charlie Horse - Talking or typing in chat lets out a horse's winny.
Split Personality - Two players swap positions every so often.
Bald - Looking at the infected player long enough will trigger a flashbang.
"Alarm" - A sound like an alarm clock goes off randomally eminating from you (negative)
Leech - if wounded, starts draining health from other players ( can kill) (negative) 
Mute - cant use any comms to speak. (With time you loose ability to speak?)
Gamer - after you empty your stamina bar, your character stops to touch some grass
paragon - gain every other negative effect, but immunity to death
Bad Gas - When indoors or on the ship, over time, a very slow TZP effect is applied to the infected player.
Heartworm - Spawns an Earth Leviathan upon death, at the position of death.
Selective Hearing - Looking at certain players will usher in the flashbang Tinnitus effect until looking away. Number selected depends on crew size.
Clinically [Nationality] - Sets the infected player's language to a random one.
Norovirus - You explode upon death. Unlike IBS, anyone damaged or killed by this explosion also explodes upon death.

Mood Swings - Randomly increases and/or decreases each of your movement factors every 2 ingame hours.
This includes:
Sprint Stamina
Jump Stamina
Walk Speed
Critical Speed
Crouch Speed
Sprint Speed
Water Speed
Jump Height
Item Weight Influence

Sterile - Picking up a baby Maneater instantly kills it.

baculovirus. It makes caterpillars explode to infect other caterpillars. (By making them go high to the light but going to ship might be easier for coding reasons.) Not sure how hard/bad that would be but it'd be a fun zombie option

Sponge Legs - how the name describes, your moving sound is literally like spongebobs 

myodesopsias- in your vision starts appearing dark spots ( neutral ) (thats a real name for that)
Cold fluu - after you sneeze on a friend it slows him for some time ( had also idea with fire breath but not sure about it) (negative)
Weak legs - after taking too many heavy items in your inventory it breaks your legs making you unable to move until the round ends ( others maybe can pickup you to rescue?) (negative)
Shroombiosis - 3 types of mushrooms are growing on your body, when they fell of you they stay on the ground and gives buffs for everyone (EVERYONE), each shroom gives other buff-  speed and jump boost, huge hp regen, strenght boost (positive)
 Parasite Link - 2 people are chained together sharing hp BUT their other stats are boosted (negative propably)
Tesla coil - zaps other people that are holding metal items (negative)
Deja vu - tp you back to the place you were 10 secs ago ( may be a bit hard too balance) (neutral/negative)
Sproodling - transforms you into a small you ( small company vibes) it comes with speed and less hp (neutral/negative)
Stinkbrain - around you are spawning shrooms that are periodically dealing toxin damage to everyone (negative) 
ionizing - you periodically hurt your teammates when you’re near them

This just gave me an idea for another one, cant think of a name but if the entity dies, it spawns two more of that entity with the same infection (could be a super rare one)
Lactose intolerant - whenever your character is healed in any way, there is a chance that you will explode
empyema - when you move you leave a trace of blood/pus behind you (Idea is for something marking the way you moved), depending on balancing maybe it can also take your hp whenewer you move
Daltonizm - just changes the scenery (white/gray for example)
[-] Repulsive - push away other players from you 
maybe inverse as well, make them go towards you
[-] Attractive - Attract othger players towards you 
one person capturing a group of people by walking by
[-] Stress eater - eat a random inventory item or nearby scrap every so often


CADAVAR BLOOM SPREADS DISEASES

6/10/2026
randomly strike player with lightning
more random diseases, like "randomly strike 1 x with lightning" with x being players, enemies or objects
randomized symptoms like "randomly do x on y" with x being an action from a list of actions, and y being the target (players, enemies or objects, positions? ship?)